hi I'm Cristin for love simply over the
next two weeks Candace and I are going
to be sharing with you how to make some
of our favorite fats these are fats we
use every day in the kitchen these fats
are budget-friendly super nourishing and
easy to make today I'm going to be
showing you how to render lard now if
you mentioned lard to anyone these days
they'll freak out because Lord is
considered an unhealthy fat thanks to
things like Crisco now Crisco and lard
are two totally different facts lard is
made from pigs and is a naturally
occurring fat that you can make in your
kitchen
Crisco is a man-made oil that is very
bad for you when you're thinking about
rendering large you actually have two
choices and kind of fat you use from a
pig the first is back fat it's just that
the back fat of a pig now this fat is a
little more picky and tastes and has a
little bit deeper of a smell like a pig
this fat is traditionally used to like
stir-fry or to deep-fry the second kind
of fat you can use is called leaf lard
now this is found around the kidneys of
the pig and has traditionally used more
on pastries and pie crusts make them
nice and light and flaky now I find that
back fat is most commonly what I can
find
so that's what I choose to use I still
think it works great for things like pie
crust so that's what I'm gonna be
showing you today but both rendering
techniques are the same whether you use
leaf lard or back fat lard now I use my
crock-pot
after you cut up your back fat you're
gonna place it in the crock pot and
you're gonna allow it to cook on low for
eight hours at low is important so that
it doesn't overheat after eight hours
you're ready to process your lard it's
already been rendered and you can see
the crackling which are the actual fat
which are now brown have separated from
liquid fat and are ready to be poured
into a jar so that we can get our lard
to separate the cracklings from the
liquid lard I choose to use a mason jar
a funnel that I use for canning a fine
mesh strainer and just took the
cheesecloth over the top to catch
anything that the strainer might not and
now we're ready to pour
as you can notice the cracklings are
squishy and cooked but not crunchy
now some people choose to top these on
their salads or eat them at the back I
haven't gotten to that point yet so
their grade is a dog treat or to maybe
share with friends after two pounds of
back fat this is what I now have is
rendered lard this is perfect to use for
stir frying or for deep-frying any kind
of high temp cooking since its stable
and it won't go rancid it's also perfect
to use for your pie crusts or pastries
or anything that you want to flaky crust
for
you